# Bellabeat-Case-Study
## Introduction
The purpose of this case study is to analyze consumer data and provide insights to help guide a company’s marketing strategy.
Bellabeat is successful, small company that manufactures high-tech health products for women. 
The company’s CCO believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company. 
By analyzing user data, we were able to identify some trends in user sleep habits, inactivity and activity levels. 
This analysis will describe the trends as well as provide a high-level recommendation for marketing Bellabeat’s products.
## Phase 1: Ask
### 1. Identify the business task:

* Analyse smart devices usage data
* Provide high quality recommendations for Bellabeat’s marketing strategy
### Questions to guide analysis:

* What are some of the trends in smart device usage?
* How can you apply these trends to Bellabeat customers?
* How can these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?
### 2. Deliverables:
* A clear summary of the business task
* A description of all data sources used
* Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
* A summary of analysis
* Supporting visualizations and key findings
* High-level content recommendations based on the analysis

## 3. Consider key stakeholders

### Primary Stakeholder(s):
* Urska Srsen - Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and co-founder of Bellabeat
* Sando Mur - Mathematician and co-founder of Bellabeat
### Secondary Stakeholder:
* Bellabeat Marketing Analytics Team

## Phases 2: Prepare
### 1. Identify the data source:

Dataset: FitBit Fitness Tracker Data (CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available by Mobius). Click here to access the dataset –> link: This Kaggle dataset contains a personal fitness tracker from thirty FitBit users. Thirty eligible FitBit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. It includes information about daily activity, steps, and heart rate that can be used to explore users’ behaviours and habits. These datasets were generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between April 2016 to May 2016.

### 2. Determine the credibility of the data:

I will use the “ROCCC” system to determine the credibility and integrity of the data.

#### Reliability:
This data is not reliable. There is no information about the margin of error and a small sample size (30 participants) has been used, which can limit the amount of analysis that can be done.

#### Originality:
This is not an original dataset as it was originally collected from Amazon Mechanical Murk.

#### Comprehensiveness: 
This data is not comprehensive. There is no information about the participants, such as gender, age, health state, etc. This could mean that data was not randomised. If the data is biased, then the insights from the analysis will be unfair to all types of people.

#### Current:
This data was collected in 2016, which means it is currently outdated and may not represent the current rends in smart device usage.

#### Cited:
As stated before, Amazon Mechanical Murk created the dataset, but we have no information on whether this is a credible source.

The data integrity and credibility is clearly insufficient to provide reliable and comprehensive insights to Bellabeat. Therefore, the following analysis can only provide first hints and directions which should be verified through an analysis of a larger and much more reliable dataset.


## Phases 3: Process
Here, I will process the data by cleaning and ensuring that it is correct, relevant, complete and free of error and outlier by performing:
* Explore and observe data
* Check for and treat missing or null values
* Transform data — format data type
* Perform preliminary statistical analysis

## Phase 4: Analyze
I will now check for statistical summary of the variables in each dataframe. After checking the Mean, standard deviation,min,max and percentile.


* Sedentary average around 991 minutes, or 16 hours.
* The users on this dataset are mostly lightly active.
* Users seem to be getting on average roughly 7 hours of sleep, and they mostly sleep one time per day on average.
* On average, these users take 7637 steps per day, which is lower than what CDC recommends on one of their research.

## Phase 5: Share
### Visualisations
Here, I will create visualisations to find relationships between the variables.We will first look at the relationship between the total number of steps and calories burned.
This graph shows a positive correlation between the total amount of steps and the calories burned - the larger the total amount of steps, the more calories burned.

Let’s check the relationship between TotalSteps and Sedentary Minutes.

Fig 2: TotalSteps vs. Sedentary Minutes
This graph shows a negative correlation between total steps and sedentary minutes - the lower the total steps, the higher the sedentary minutes.

Let’s see what the relationships are like between the active minutes (very, fairly, and lightly) and the number of calories burned.

Fig 3: Active minutes vs. calories burned
From these graphs, we can clearly see that there are positive relationships between very active minutes, and lightly active minutes’ against the calories burned. However, there seems to be a negative relationship between fairly active minutes and the number of calories burned. We can also see that more calories were burned with people who did lighter activities compared to those who were very and/or fairly active.

Next, we will look at the relationship between the total minutes asleep and total minutes in bed

As you can see from the graph above, there is a positive correlation between the total minutes asleep and the amount of time spent in bed. Using this data, Bellabeat can use an app that notifies its customers about when it would be the right time to go to bed so that they can get an adequate amount of sleep.

## Phase 6: Act
### Recommendations for Bellabeat Marketing Strategy:

* Based on the activity levels and amount of calories burned, users appear to burn more calories with more exercise. Therefore, Bellabeat should encourage users to exercise more through reminders. They could also offer app incentives, such as give users app credits for every 1000 steps, which can then be used to redeem prizes or vouchers.

* The data also shows many people lead either a lightly active or sedentary lifestyle, which may be due to the nature of their work or the lack of time to exercise. Bellabeat could have a section on their app for short workout videos or short exercises (for example, 10 minute videos) that their customers can follow along to if they don’t necessarily want to exercise alone.

* To encourage better sleeping habits, Bellabeat could incorporate reminders through an app that notifies users of the best time to go to sleep and wake up in order to feel refreshed in the morning and get adequate amount of sleep. The app could also automatically turn on ‘do not disturb’ mode and turn on ‘night mode’ on the customers’ phones to signal the user that they are not disturbed by messages or phone calls from family and friends.

### Recommendations based on the limitations of the dataset:

* A larger sample size in order to improve the statistical significance of the analysis.

* Collect a longer period of tracking data, ideally for 6 months to a year, to account for behavioural changes due to the changes in seasons.

* The need to obtain current data in order to better reflect current consumer behaviours and/or trends in smart device usage.

* Collect data from internal sources (if possible) and/or from primary/secondary data sources to increase credibility and reliability of the
